docs/index.md, before:

# Workshop FAQ: Network Testing with NUTS
**Proctor**: Urs Baumann  

---

!!! warning

    At the moment NAPALM does not support Python 3.13 ([PR](https://github.com/napalm-automation/napalm/pull/2137))

    Getting the path to a older Python version
    ```bash
    whereis python3.12
    ```

    Use the older version with Poetry
    ```bash
    poetry env use /usr/local/python/3.12.1/bin/python3
    ```

## General Information

### 1. What is this workshop about?

This hands-on workshop introduces NUTS (Network Unit Testing System) for network testing. Participants will learn the fundamentals of NUTS and pytest before applying them to test a simple network. The workshop also covers custom test case development and provides an introduction to the INPG Stack.

**Topics**:

- Introduction to NUTS and pytest
- Performing basic network testing with NUTS
- Customizing pytest test reports
- Developing custom test cases
- Overview of the INPG Stack (Infrahub, NUTS, Prometheus, Grafana)

This workshop is ideal for those looking to enhance their network automation and testing skills with Python.

### 2. What experience level is required?

This workshop is designed for participants with an intermediate level of experience in Python and network automation. You should be comfortable working with Python and have some familiarity with pytest, Napalm, and other network automation libraries. Prior experience with network testing or automation frameworks will be beneficial but is not strictly required.

---

## Pre-Workshop Preparation

### 3. What do I need to install before the workshop?

- **Python (version 3.10 or above)**
- **Python venv**: To avoid messing up your local Python setup, you should be able to create a virtual Python environment or work in a dedicated container/VM.
- **Unix**: It is recommended that you work on a Unix-based operation system like Linux or MacOS.
- **Libraries**: TODO
- **IDE**: You can use the IDE you desire. The proctor is most comfortable with VSCode.

### 4. Are there any pre-reading materials?
There is no mandatory pre-reading, but it does not harm to familiarize yourself with the official documentation of the libraries we will cover:

- [NUTS Documentation](https://nuts.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [NUTS Git Repo](https://github.com/network-unit-testing-system/nuts)
- [containerlab](https://containerlab.dev/)
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)
- [Nornir](https://nornir.readthedocs.io/)
- [Napalm Mock Driver](https://napalm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/mock_driver.html)
- [Napalm Mock data example](https://github.com/NetAutLabs/topology_with_napalm/tree/main/mocked_napalm_data)


### 5. Do I need to bring any equipment?
Yes, please bring a laptop with Python and the necessary libraries pre-installed. Ensure that your laptop is configured with the appropriate permissions to install and run software.

### 6. Can I use GitHub Codespaces?
Yes. All the labs work well with GitHub Codespaces. Make sure your free quota is not exceeded. 

---

## Own Ideas

### 7. Can I implement my own ideas?
Definitely, it is appriciated to consider how you can apply the learned material to your specific use case. However, time is limited, and the proctor cannot focus on each idea in detail.

### 8. Lab access?
You can run your own lab on your computer or connect to your lab. The internet is shared to all attendees and therefore graphical transmissions are not recommended.

---

## Technical Questions

### 9. Will the workshop be hands-on?
Yes! This is a practical, hands-on workshop. You will be actively writing and running Python code to create CLI tools throughout the session.

---

## Additional Information

### 10. Who do I contact if I have questions before the workshop?
For any questions or concerns prior to the workshop, feel free to contact Urs Baumann directly through the Network Automation Forum channels.

### 11. What if I cannot keep up with the pace of the workshop?
The workshop is structured to accommodate various skill levels. If you fall behind, the proctor will be available to help, and you can use the break to catch up. The lab containes checkpoints with provided solutions.

Commit message:

Improve lab access and keep up sections

docs/index.md, after:

# Workshop FAQ: Network Testing with NUTS
**Proctor**: Urs Baumann  

---

!!! warning

    At the moment NAPALM does not support Python 3.13 ([PR](https://github.com/napalm-automation/napalm/pull/2137))

    Getting the path to a older Python version
    ```bash
    whereis python3.12
    ```

    Use the older version with Poetry
    ```bash
    poetry env use /usr/local/python/3.12.1/bin/python3
    ```

## General Information

### 1. What is this workshop about?

This hands-on workshop introduces NUTS (Network Unit Testing System) for network testing. Participants will learn the fundamentals of NUTS and pytest before applying them to test a simple network. The workshop also covers custom test case development and provides an introduction to the INPG Stack.

**Topics**:

- Introduction to NUTS and pytest
- Performing basic network testing with NUTS
- Customizing pytest test reports
- Developing custom test cases
- Overview of the INPG Stack (Infrahub, NUTS, Prometheus, Grafana)

This workshop is ideal for those looking to enhance their network automation and testing skills with Python.

### 2. What experience level is required?

This workshop is designed for participants with an intermediate level of experience in Python and network automation. You should be comfortable working with Python and have some familiarity with pytest, Napalm, and other network automation libraries. Prior experience with network testing or automation frameworks will be beneficial but is not strictly required.

---

## Pre-Workshop Preparation

### 3. What do I need to install before the workshop?

- **Python (version 3.10 or above)**
- **Python venv**: To avoid messing up your local Python setup, you should be able to create a virtual Python environment or work in a dedicated container/VM.
- **Unix**: It is recommended that you work on a Unix-based operation system like Linux, MacOS or WSL.
- **Libraries**: TODO
- **IDE**: You can use the IDE you desire. The proctor is most comfortable with VSCode.

### 4. Are there any pre-reading materials?
There is no mandatory pre-reading, but it does not harm to familiarize yourself with the official documentation of the libraries we will cover:

- [NUTS Documentation](https://nuts.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [NUTS Git Repo](https://github.com/network-unit-testing-system/nuts)
- [containerlab](https://containerlab.dev/)
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)
- [Nornir](https://nornir.readthedocs.io/)
- [Napalm Mock Driver](https://napalm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/mock_driver.html)
- [Napalm Mock data example](https://github.com/NetAutLabs/topology_with_napalm/tree/main/mocked_napalm_data)


### 5. Do I need to bring any equipment?
Yes, please bring a laptop with Python and the necessary libraries pre-installed. Ensure that your laptop is configured with the appropriate permissions to install and run software.

### 6. Can I use GitHub Codespaces?
Yes. All the labs work well with GitHub Codespaces. Make sure your free quota is not exceeded. 

---

## Own Ideas

### 7. Can I implement my own ideas?
Definitely, it is appriciated to consider how you can apply the learned material to your specific use case. However, time is limited, and the proctor cannot focus on each idea in detail.

### 8. Lab access?
You can set up and run your own lab on your computer or connect to an external lab. However, keep in mind that internet bandwidth is shared among all attendees. Graphical transmissions, such as remote desktop sessions or video streaming, are discouraged as they consume excessive bandwidth. For the best performance, use SSH-based access whenever possible.

---

## Technical Questions

### 9. Will the workshop be hands-on?
Yes! This is a practical, hands-on workshop. You will be actively writing and running Python code to create CLI tools throughout the session.

---

## Additional Information

### 10. Who do I contact if I have questions before the workshop?
For any questions or concerns prior to the workshop, feel free to contact Urs Baumann directly through the Network Automation Forum channels.

### 11. What if I cannot keep up with the pace of the workshop?
This workshop is designed for an intermediate skill level, but don’t worry if you fall behind. The proctor is happy to assist during the session, and you can also use breaks to catch up. Additionally, each section includes checkpoint solutions to help you stay on track. The goal is to ensure everyone can follow along and gain hands-on experience.
